Silk Sonic, John Legend, Carrie Underwood and J Balvin with Maria Becerra were added to the lineup of performers for the 64th annual Grammy Awards held Sunday (April 3). Silk Sonic — the duo of Bruno Mars and Anderson Paak — are slated to open the show. In addition, Maverick City Music, Aymée Nuviola and Billy Strings will perform in special segments that will showcase Las Vegas, which is hosting the Grammys for the first time, and spotlight genres not historically represented on the Grammy telecast, per a statement that accompanied this third and presumably last slate of Grammy performers announced on Wednesday (March 30). Previously announced Grammys performers are Jon Batiste, Brothers Osborne, BTS, Brandi Carlile, Billie Eilish, H.E.R., Lil Nas X with Jack Harlow, Nas, Olivia Rodrigo and Chris Stapleton. The ceremony will also include a previously announced In Memoriam salute to legendary Broadway composer Stephen Sondheim performed by Cynthia Erivo, Leslie Odom Jr., Ben Platt and Rachel Zegler.
Foo Fighters, who were previously announced as performers on the show, were not listed in the latest release. The band is mourning the loss of its drummer, Taylor Hawkins, who died suddenly at age 50 on Friday. March 25. On Tuesday, March 29, the band canceled all tour dates. The band has been closely associated with the Grammys over the years. The band has won best rock album four times — twice as often as anyone else — and is nominated again this year. Will the band show up at the Grammys as a way of honoring their drummer or is it too simply soon and too painful?
Most of the major 2022 Grammy nominees are set to perform on the show, but a handful of artists who rated high in the nominations aren’t performing (or at least haven’t been announced yet). They include Doja Cat and Justin Bieber, who each received eight nominations, as well as Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett, who are nominated for both album and record of the year; Abba, which is up for record of the year; Taylor Swift and Kanye West, who are both vying for album of the year; and Ed Sheeran, who is up for song of the year.
The Academy has invited Bennett and Gaga, who received five Grammy nominations for their second collaborative album, Love for Sale, to the show. A performance may hinge on how Bennett, who is 95 and living with Alzheimer’s disease, is feeling that day. Gaga may perform individually if Bennett is not up to joining her, but such a move, even if planned, has not been announced. 
All of today’s newly added performers except Legend and Becerra are 2022 Grammy nominees. Silk Sonic are nominated for four awards, including record and song of the year, for “Leave the Door Open,” which they premiered on last year’s Grammy telecast. Underwood is up for two awards — best roots gospel album for My Savior and best country duo/group performance for “If I Didn’t Love You,” a collab with Jason Aldean. J Balvin is nominated in the new best música urbana album category for Jose.

Maverick City Music is nominated for four awards, including best gospel album for Jubilee: Juneteenth Edition and best contemporary Christian music album for Old Church Basement, a collaborative album with Elevation Worship. Maverick City Music, a nine-member collective which originated in Atlanta, is the first act to be nominated in both of those album categories in the same year since the awards categories were streamlined to their present form in 2011.

Nuviola is nominated for best tropical Latin album for Sin Salsa No Hay Paraíso. Strings is nominated for two awards — best bluegrass album for Renewal and best American roots performance for “Love and Regret.”

It was announced on Monday March 28 that Legend will receive the first-ever Recording Academy Global Impact Award at the Recording Academy Honors presented by the Black Music Collective. The in-person event is set to take place at Resorts World Las Vegas on Saturday, April 2, the night before the Grammys.
Trevor Noah is set to host the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which will air live from MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas on Sunday, April 3 at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT on CBS. The show will be available to stream live and on demand on Paramount+.
The show is produced by Fulwell 73 Productions for the Recording Academy. Raj Kapoor serves as showrunner and executive producer, alongside Ben Winston and Jesse Collins as executive producers, and Jeannae Rouzan-Clay as co-executive producer. Hamish Hamilton returns as director, and Eric Cook as supervising producer with Tabitha D’umo, Patrick Menton, Fatima Robinson, and David Wild as producers.
The Kid LAROI and Genesis Owusu kept their hot streaks going with wins Wednesday night (March 30) at the second annual Rolling Stone Australia Awards, held at the Argyle in central Sydney.
Just days after “Stay” collected best collaboration at the 2022 iHeartRadio Awards, The Kid LAROI backed up with the Rolling Stone Global Award, beating out a list of heavyweights that included Keith Urban, Kylie Minogue, PNAU, Rüfüs Du Sol and Tones and I.
The “Global” triumph is recognition for the teenage singer and rapper’s stellar breakthrough in 2021, during which time he collected No. 1 singles and album titles in the U.S. and Australia, along with ARIA and APRA Awards. Also on the night, Genesis Owusu snagged best record for his all-conquering Smiling with No Teeth, extending a remarkable run of wins.

The Ghana-born, Canberra raised funk exponent has cleaned up on the awards circuit over the past six months, with his debut LP scoring album of the year at the ARIA Awards, Australian album of the year at the J Awards and, earlier this month, the Australian Music Prize and Vanda & Young Songwriting Contest.

Darwin indie pop band King Stingray won best new artist award, triple j favorite Gordi took out the Reader’s Choice Award, and Gold Coast singer and songwriter Amy Shark scored best single for “Baby Steps,” lifted from her ARIA No. 1 album Cry Forever.

Performers on the night included Shark and singer-songwriter Ruby Fields, while podcasters Matt & Alex were hosts.

“We couldn’t be more excited and proud to have been able to host live music in Sydney and acknowledge the powerful impact musicians have had on culture,” Poppy Reid, the Brag Media’s editor-in-chief, told the packed house.

“It should also be said that Rolling Stone editors from all over the world took part in our judging process so even those who didn’t take home an award tonight are now on the radar of some of the leading voices in music journalism.”

The Brag Media entered into a licensing agreement in 2019 with Rolling Stone’s parent company, Penske Media Corporation (PMC), for the launch of Rolling Stone Australia, with the first issues rolling off the presses early in 2020. Former Silverchair frontman Daniel Johns is the cover star of the latest issue, out Monday. The Grammys are going big again after last year’s smaller, more intimate presentation inside and outside the Los Angeles Convention Center. “We are back in an arena space with a full audience, so our scale has once again grown,” says Raj Kapoor, who is one of the show’s executive producers for the second year in a row – and showrunner for the first time. This year’s show, set for Sunday at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas, will feature performances by BTS, Billie Eilish, Olivia Rodrigo, Silk Sonic, J Balvin and more. Trevor Noah is hosting for the second year.
Real life has complicated two key bookings. Tony Bennett, who is 95 and living with Alzheimer’s disease, may or may not be able to attend and perform. And Foo Fighters’ previously announced performance is uncertain in the wake of the sudden death on Friday of the band’s drummer, Taylor Hawkins.
Asked on Monday if Foo Fighters would appear, Jack Sussman, EVP, specials, CBS, said, “I hope so. I don’t know. I think we need to give them a little time to deal with the tragedy that has impacted their family and listen to them and come up with something to honor Taylor’s memory that is appropriate and that they feel good about.”
About Bennett, Kapoor said in a separate interview, “He has an open invitation to our show and we are hopeful he will be coming. I can’t guarantee anything. He was one of the people that we extended an offer to as soon as the nominations came out and we talk to them every couple of days.”
There have been media reports that Kanye West was invited to perform but that the invitation was withdrawn in the wake of West’s highly charged social media posts. “I really don’t want to speak to or about Kanye,” Sussman says. “But the fact of the matter is: Don’t believe everything you read – and believe some of what you read.”
The show will also include a spot that Sussman promises will be “emotional and engaging” that commemorates the ongoing war in Ukraine. “I think we have to acknowledge what’s going on in the world today,” Sussman says. Noah had hosted four awards shows in his native South Africa, but the 2021 Grammys was his first American awards show.

Noah says he agreed to do the show again based on his “really great working relationship” with Ben Winston, who was showrunner last year and remains one of the show’s executive producers (along with Kapoor and Jesse Collins). “That’s why I said yes to the Grammys. Because I can only do so much as a host. The biggest misconception that people can have is that this is my show. The Grammys is about the Grammys. It’s about the artists, the awards, the show. I’m not trying to make it about me. So I need to work with somebody who has a clear vision and understanding [of] who I am and also who knows how to implement what we’re all trying to do. Working with Ben is a pleasure in that regard.”
Sussman and Kapoor both say they wanted Noah to return as host. “We loved what Trevor brought to the show,” Kapoor says. “His reverence, his love for music, his ability to interface with artists. I think it was unanimous that we all wanted him back.”
“Last year, Trevor was hosting the show in the middle of the COVID pandemic, and we had to call an audible,” Sussman says. “He had to host in a very different way than you would normally host the Grammy Awards. And for an artist that’s as talented and confident a host as Trevor is, it’s always good to have a crowd in front of you when you’re doing your business. We wanted to bring him back, and honestly, I would take Trevor Noah into a live TV foxhole any day of the week. There’s nobody better in that moment in time when you need someone to walk out and be a true MC for the evening in an engaging, entertaining, insightful and intellectual way.”
Sussman has been a key executive at CBS since 1998, a period in which the Recording Academy has had four CEOs (Michael Greene, Neil Portnow, Deborah Dugan and Harvey Mason jr.) and the Grammy Awards telecast has had three showrunners (Ken Ehrlich, Winston and now Kapoor). “Working on this show has been one of the highlights of my career,” Kapoor says. “I’ve watched it evolve over the years. The show has grown as music has changed and the television viewing audience has changed. “But ultimately what has [been] the constant is the idea that we are celebrating the year in music. Were bringing artists to the biggest audience possible in a given moment in time and we’re celebrating it all under one roof on one night. That’s the beauty of the Grammys. You gotta walk out on that stage in front of your peers in front of millions of people worldwide and deliver the goods.
“You have the highest caliber of artists at that given moment in time under one roof, and they’re right there sitting in front of you. That forces you to up your game. So, when somebody walks out on stage and blows your mind, and you’re coming in behind them, you better be ready. … Artists want to shine in that moment and look like they belong on that stage and they all usually do. Because that moment in time can change your professional life.”
Kapoor says the show will be incorporating some lessons learned at last year’s widely praised, more intimate show. “We’ve made efforts to have a better relationship between the performers onstage and the audience. Normally when we’ve been at Staples Center, now Crypto.com Arena, we have rows of seats. We’ve actually done very small kind of table seating for our nominees this year and they’re actually really close to the stage, so there is no mosh pit. The stage has been lowered. It’s just over 4 feet high. We used to be at like 7 and a half feet high. The relationship between the performer and the audience is much more intimate.”
Just as the 2021 Grammys put a spotlight on music venues that had been hard hit by the pandemic, this year’s show will spotlight the touring community. “The music touring community was hit hard for almost 1 and a half years with a huge amount of people that were out of work,” Kapoor says. “Only recently, shows have been back on the road. That is one of the stories that we plan on honoring this year.” “Grammy Moments” were Ehrlich’s signature show element in his remarkable 40-year run as the show’s producer or executive producer. Many Grammy moments were collaborations of artists who don’t normally perform together, but the phrase gradually came to serve as a catch-all for show highlights.

“We will continue to have amazing Grammy moments,” Kapoor says. “We’re probably doing less collaborations, but sometimes when they happen, they’re magical. … Those kind of Grammy moments are continuing to evolve. I think they’re just going to be done in a little bit of a different way.”

Kapoor notes that the show was about 85% booked when a surge in the Omicron variant forced a postponement from Jan. 31 to April 3. The postponement was announced on Jan. 5. Most of the acts who had been booked were able to accommodate the new date, but he says that the show lost “one or two acts” that couldn’t move. Kapoor declines to name those artists. “They are still coming to the awards portion, but they couldn’t block out two days to come to rehearsal dates.
“As soon as we knew we were moving, we reached out because two months later, into the spring, is when a lot of people were actually on the road. So many artists were able to accommodate us. Some actually moved performance or tour dates. Billie Eilish and Olivia Rodrigo had dates on sale, but they were very gracious and were able to move.”
The Grammys used to be fiercely competitive and generally wouldn’t book an artist if they had appeared on a competitive awards show. The Grammys still want to have the definitive performance of a song, but they’ve relaxed their demands for exclusivity.
“Things have changed,” Kapoor says. “We’re not calling people and stopping them from performing on late-night shows or other shows. We always want to have a special performance on the Grammys. We think if you have a big idea or [would like to] do the version that you’ve always wanted to do, it should be on the Grammys, but we’re not here to stop you from doing Saturday Night Live or other shows. That’s not our style. It’s just something we don’t do anymore. We want people to be successful, but when they come to our show, we want it to be special. We want it to be the one moment that helps define that album project or that song.” This year’s Oscars had some Grammy-type elements, such as the first live performance of the non-nominated “We Don’t Talk About Bruno,” with a surprise guest rap by Megan Thee Stallion. (A would-be Oscar Moment!) Kapoor says the two shows, and awards shows in general, borrow from each other. He notes that the Grammys last year created short films for nominees in the album of the year category – an idea borrowed from the Oscars. “Sometimes we might see an idea on the Oscars and say, ‘Oh, they treated that package really beautifully.’ Those ideas kind of get shared. We learn from each other.”
Kapoor says the Grammys are also more open to reaching out to people in the industry to have conversations about artists and show ideas.
“That has really changed under Harvey’s leadership, this outreach to the entire music community,” he says. “We have this open-door policy — come to us with an idea. Nothing is really off-the-table. We’re having this very open dialogue of who potentially will be on the show with all the people that are involved in the TV committee and CBS. That is an open forum for people to discuss all of these amazing artists that existed in the nominating process.”
Sussman speaks highly of the current Grammy production team. “The team we have in place right now working on this show, with this group of producers and directors, is literally one of the most talented and diverse groups of creators on any show I’ve ever worked on.”
Kapoor grew up watching the Grammys, citing performances by Michael Jackson, Prince, Aretha Franklin and The Chicks as particular favorites.
“It’s an actual dream come true to show-run the Grammys,” he says, near the end of the interview. “I’ve watched the show since I was a child. I didn’t know I was going to be involved in the entertainment industry, but I always knew I wanted to watch this show. I would always get permission to stay up late and watch the show in its entirely. “Then when I came to L.A., I got asked to assist on a couple of numbers [as a creative consultant]. I remember walking into the Grammy room the first time live for a rehearsal [in 2001]. It was with Destiny’s Child [for an ‘Independent Women Part I’/’Say My Name’ medley]. I also did another performance with Faith Hill [‘Breathe’] that year. I was helping produce both those segments, because there were complexities with both. I walked into that room and met Ken for the first time. That room took my breath away. Just being around that energy; seeing all those amazingly talented people and those cameras moving and everything else. Probably four years later, I did an interview with Ken because he was looking to have some added creative voices on his team.”
This is Kapoor’s 11th Grammy show as a member of the production team. He has also worked on six Academy of Country Music Awards shows, five Oscars, four Primetime Emmys and more.
“When Ben and Jack Sussman and Harvey asked me during the summer [of 2021] to run the show, I literally cried. They were the happiest tears I’ve ever had. I feel honored that I get to make one of my dreams come true and work with some of the best people in the business and work with artists at the top of their game.
“This show has a legacy that is unsurpassed with how many amazing artists and performances have been on that show. I hope I can help propel that legacy into the future.”
The 2022 Grammy Awards will air live from MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas on Sunday, April 3, at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT on CBS. The show will be available to stream live and on demand on Paramount+. The show is produced by Fulwell 73 Productions for the Recording Academy. Muse will play a pair of intimate benefit shows to raise money for two organizations aiding the people of war-torn Ukraine. “We’re honoured to be able to play these shows over two nights for three outstanding organisations,” the band announced on Monday morning (March 28). “They’re out there delivering vital services time after time for the most vulnerable people in society, both in the UK and abroad.” Scaling down from the stadiums and arenas they typically play, the prog rock trio will set up at the 5,000-capacity London Eventim Apollo on May 9 and 10; the first show will raise money for War Child — which aids children and young people affected by war — with night two’s proceeds going to Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), who provide medical care to people trapped in war zones and global disasters. The May 10 show will also serve as a 30th anniversary celebration of the British Magazine The Big Issue, with fellow British rockers Razorlight opening that night’s show. Tickets for the show will go on sale on Wednesday (March 30) here.
Muse join a growing list of acts playing shows to support the besieged citizens of Ukraine, who have been under assault by Russian troops for more than a month as par of Russian dictator Vladimir Putin’s unprovoked war on the former Soviet republic. Arcade Fire recently played a benefit in New Orleans for Ukrainian relief, and Ed Sheeran, Camila Cabello, Snow Patrol and more acts are slated to perform at Tuesday night’s (March 29) all-star “Concert for Ukraine” at the Resorts World Arena in Birmingham, England. Shawn Mendes returns with “When You’re Gone” (via Island), his first release of 2022. A dreamy love song with a punchy chorus, “Gone” is his first release since “It’ll Be Okay,” which dropped in December 2021. Long-time collaborator Jay Martin (“It’ll Be Okay,” “Mercy,” “Stitches”) shot the official music video, filmed across several days of recording, rehearsing in Toronto, Canada. The visual builds to Mendes’ live debut of the song at SXSW in Austin, Texas. “When You’re Gone” was produced by the Canadian heartthrob and Jonah Shy, and was co-written by Mendes, Jonah Shy, and Scott Harris. All four of Mendes’ four full-length studio albums have debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200, including his most recent effort, Wonder, from 2020. Mendes will perform “When You’re Gone” and his bank of hits when he returns to the road for Wonder: The World Tour, his biggest tour yet. The North America leg kicks off June 27 in Portland, OR and wraps Oct. 26 in Newark, NJ. 
Madonna is going back to the future, again, for her upcoming remix. After dropping a slowed-down, gauzy remix of her Ray of Light single by masked DJ Sickick in December — and then another hypnotic take on the 1998 fan-favorite earlier this month with Sick and Nigerian singer Fireboy DML — Madge is going back to the well one more time time this week with a third version of the lead single from the song she originally co-produced with Patrick Leonard and William Orbit. This time, she teased in a tweet, she’ll be joined by New Jersey rapper/singer 070 Shake. “New song And video drops in 2 days with @070Shake,” Madonna wrote along with snow flake, blue heart and nazar emoji. A 17-second teaser features a moody snaps of Shake and Madonna on what looks like a midnight video set and a snippet of the screwed-and-chopped remix that mixes the pop icon’s alluring vocals and the “sickick” name check. In what are now clearly shots from the video shoot for the remix posted on March 20, Madonna is pictured sitting on a chair amid some weeds while rocking giant white moon boots, thigh-high black sheer socks, black hot pants and a black top. In other snaps, she stands astride an orange bucket that reads “Let’s Do This,” squats on the floor near a female mannequin head, sits in a white bathtub and approaches the car on what looks like a soundstage. The resurgence of Madonna’s 1998 Billboard Hot 100 No. 2 hit and Dance Club Songs chart-topper began in December 2021, when Canadian producer Sickick transformed it into a chill trap mix that blew up on TikTok. The revamped version eventually debuted at No. 20 on Billboard‘s Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart last winter and peaked at No. 15.
Looking for some motivation to help power you through the start of another work week? We feel you, and with some stellar new pop tunes, we’ve got you covered. These 10 tracks from artists like Jensen McRae, mxmtoon, TWICE, Barrie and more will get you energized to take on the week. Pop any of these gems into your personal playlists — or scroll to the end of the post for a custom playlist of all 10. As the track title suggests, “Take It Easy” — off Jensen McRae’s upcoming debut Are You Happy Now? — is a warm and soothing song about doing exactly that. With McRae’s inviting vocals, which float over light percussion, it’s near impossible not to grant yourself a moment of rest when this comes on. — Lyndsey Havens. Rising singer-songwriter Oston often adds a kick of electo-pop production to her music, and those moments stand out on her latest single “Hard To Love.” This L.A. newcomer’s strength is knowing just how to balance those revved-up seconds with softer ones, resulting here in a song that grabs listeners and refuses to let go until its near-whispered end. — L.H. Sad disco, crying in the club, call it what you will — being a bummed-out party-goer is an idea explored before. But on mxmtoon’s latest, she offers a fresh take that’s part of her bigger plan: flip the narrative on its head to own the concept of needing, and even enjoying, a sad disco. Not sold? The plinky uptempo production might just do the trick, or perhaps its music video, in which there’s nothing but wide-faced grins. — L.H. Jake Wesley Rogers wastes no time showing off his vocal range on “Lavender Forever,” on which he scales notes with the dexterity of a seasoned climber within the song’s first 30 seconds. The driving pop-rock piano melody helps this song feel like a seasoned favorite, while catchy lines like “sticky sticky fingers for life” are evidence it was made today (and perhaps with a certain TikTok algorithm in mind). — L.H. After releasing a pair of singles earlier in the year, bedroom pop and indie-rock hybrid Beabadoobee has given fans the first look at her fourth studio album, Beatopia. On new single “Talk,” the Dirty Hit artist taps into the Internet’s collective nostalgia for the 2000s — “it sounds like 2006,” she said of the forthcoming album — delivering her signature syrupy-sweet vocals and layering them over fuzzy, grunge-inspired guitar riffs. — Starr Bowenbank.  ‘80s pop stars Soft Cell and Pet Shop Boys teamed up for “Purple Zone” with a goal: express their fears of aging and reflect on decades past. But that doesn’t mean they’re mourning their youth. Chris Lowe’s upbeat synths — which recall his and Neil Tennant’s 1987 hit, “Always On My Mind” — feel like a celebration as Tennant, alongside Soft Cell’s Marc Almond, wistfully enters a new stage of life. — S.B. TWICE, known fondly amongst K-pop listeners for their generally positive tracks, return with “Just be yourself” for fans of their Japanese-language material. The sweet track finds the K-pop group singing of how much they appreciate the close friendships in their lives, buoyed by bouncy synths and the occasional tropical house flair in the verses. — S.B. Christina Perri’s “Evergone” navigates through extreme grief — the new single is about the death of the singer-songwriter’s daughter, Rosie — with a tempo and attitude that embrace the type of healing that feels both impossible and necessary given the circumstances. With the shimmering, moving “Evergone,” Perri has found hope in the middle of devastation. — Jason Lipshutz. Claudia Valentina’s voice hops across the lyrics on new single “Extra Agenda” like they’re floating in midair and about to fall away — there’s an urgency and passion in every syllable, commanding the attention away from the lush synth-pop production and toward each of her ideas. Valentina showed promise on her self-titled 2020 EP, but on “Extra Agenda,” she’s dazzling with far more personality. — J.L. Barbara, the recently released album from Brooklyn-based Barrie, is one of the most complete pop full-lengths of 2022, a bewitching collection of styles that rarely overlap yet never seem out of place. “Basketball” represents a late highlight, all shuffling beats and nervy energy that locks into a glitchy groove thanks to Barrie’s vocal restraint. — J.L. 
If the CIA is ever in a pinch for new employees, they could just hit up the Harry Styles fandom. A week after the 28-year-old popstar’s fans correctly predicted the announcement of his third studio album, they’ve done it again — this time concluding that Styles’ next single was on its way. On Monday (March 28), he confirmed their suspicions in an announcement that his upcoming track “As It Was” will be out at midnight BT on April 1. Styles simply wrote on social media, “As It Was. April 1.” The announcement was accompanied by photos of him from behind, with the star in a sequined, sleeveless red outfit. When Styles announced his new 13-track record Harry’s House on March 23, it vindicated fans who’d long theorized that the “Watermelon Sugar” singer was behind a mysterious website called YouAreHome.co. The website updated with a new photograph partly concealed by a beige doorframe every day, appearing to relate to a work of art related to Styles’ imminent third album. Following the album announcement, the website continued to update with photos of abstract art, which fans decided signaled a new single from Styles. As of the “As It Was” news, the You Are Home door opens up to a black and white illustration. Though no further details about “As It Was” have been shared, fans are pretty sure they already know some of its lyrics. A Twitter account also titled YouAreHome appeared around the same time as the website, posting cryptic tweets that turned out to be traceable to Styles’ new album campaign. With the new single on the way, the account’s more poetic tweets feel like they could be unreleased song lyrics. “In this world, it’s just us, you know it’s not the same as it was,” reads one of the tweets. “Whisper to your houseplants, sing to your neighbors,” says another. One pretty compelling fan theory has still yet to be confirmed, but the Harries like their odds. They recently discovered that a list of coordinates could be found hidden in the coding details of the YouAreHome website, which they believe to be the locations of his next tour.
